docs/06_rsvps.adoc, before:

= RSVPs
include::include.adoc[]

== RSVPs

To make location based recommendations we need to know where people have previously attended events and luckily the meetup.com API gives us RSVPs which can serve as a proxy for attendance.

Let's see what data we've got to work with:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS
FROM "{csv-url}rsvps.csv" AS row
RETURN row
LIMIT 10
----

So we get an identifier for each RSVP, an event id which the RSVP is for, a member id that identifies the user and a few other attributes.
Let's get the RSVPs into the graph then!

== Importing RSVPs

We're only going to worry ourselves with 'yes' RSVPs, we won't import any 'no' or 'waitlist' responses.

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
USING PERIODIC COMMIT 10000
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM "{csv-url}rsvps.csv" AS row
WITH row WHERE row.response = "yes"

MATCH (member:Member {id: row.member_id})
MATCH (event:Event {id: row.event_id})
MERGE (member)-[rsvp:RSVPD {id: row.rsvp_id}]->(event)
ON CREATE SET rsvp.created = toint(row.created),
              rsvp.lastModified = toint(row.mtime),
              rsvp.guests = toint(row.guests)
----

Let's check they got imported correctly:

include::form.adoc[tags=event]

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (event:Event)<-[rsvp:RSVPD]-(attendee)
WHERE event.name CONTAINS {event}
RETURN *
----

This query shows us who's signed up for the hackathon we're running tonight - hopefully you can see your name on that list?!

Now we're ready to make use of RSVPs and venues in our events recommendation query.

== Our previous RSVPS

First we'll update the query to add a score for an event based on previous events we've attended in that group.

include::form.adoc[tags=name]

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
MATCH (member:Member) WHERE member.name CONTAINS {name}
MATCH (futureEvent:Event)
WHERE timestamp() + (7 * 24 * 60 * 60 * 1000) > futureEvent.time > timestamp()

WITH member, futureEvent, EXISTS((member)-[:MEMBER_OF]->()-[:HOSTED_EVENT]->(futureEvent)) AS myGroup
OPTIONAL MATCH (member)-[:INTERESTED_IN]->()<-[:HAS_TOPIC]-()-[:HOSTED_EVENT]->(futureEvent)

WITH member, futureEvent, myGroup, COUNT(*) AS commonTopics
WHERE commonTopics >= 3

OPTIONAL MATCH (member)-[rsvp:RSVPD]->(previousEvent)<-[:HOSTED_EVENT]-()-[:HOSTED_EVENT]->(futureEvent)
WHERE previousEvent.time < timestamp()

WITH futureEvent, commonTopics, myGroup, COUNT(rsvp) AS previousEvents

MATCH (venue)<-[:VENUE]-(futureEvent)<-[:HOSTED_EVENT]-(group)

WITH futureEvent, group, venue, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, distance(point(venue), point({latitude: 51.518551, longitude: -0.086114})) AS distance
WITH futureEvent, group, venue, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, distance, CASE WHEN myGroup THEN 5 ELSE 0 END AS myGroupScore
WITH futureEvent, group, venue, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, distance, myGroupScore, round((futureEvent.time - timestamp()) / (24.0*60*60*1000)) AS days

RETURN futureEvent.name, futureEvent.time, group.name, venue.name, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, days, distance, myGroupScore + commonTopics - days AS score
ORDER BY score DESC
----

Now it's your turn!

== Exercise: Events at my venues

At the moment our event recommendation query takes into account our groups, topics and the previous events we've been to but it doesn't take into account where those events were hosted which could be an important factor.
Let's now update the query to:

* calculate a score for events at venues that I've previously visited

You'll remember from the venues guide that we saw some venues appear many times under different names.
Let's also update the query to:

* calculate a score for events within 500 metres of venues that I've previously visited

to account for that problem with the data.

== To the slides!

image::{img}/slides.jpg[]
pass:a[<a play-topic='{guides}/06_my_venues_answers.html'>Answers: Events at my venues</a>]

== Next Step
In our next section we're going to take a brief detour to introduce procedures, a new addition in Neo4j 3.0.0.
We'll then make use of them in our recommendations and even write some of our own if time permits.

pass:a[<a play-topic='{guides}/07_procedures.html'>Procedures</a>]

Commit message:

Guide updates for generalized training
Use in guide form for member name
Use configurable meetup name and id
Use configurable location lat/lon
Bump threshold for friends / commit for larger datasets
Add links to answer guides
Update procedure calls based on apoc updates

docs/06_rsvps.adoc, after:

= RSVPs
include::include.adoc[]

== RSVPs

To make location based recommendations we need to know where people have previously attended events and luckily the meetup.com API gives us RSVPs which can serve as a proxy for attendance.

Let's see what data we've got to work with:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS
FROM "{csv-url}rsvps.csv" AS row
RETURN row
LIMIT 10
----

So we get an identifier for each RSVP, an event id which the RSVP is for, a member id that identifies the user and a few other attributes.
Let's get the RSVPs into the graph then!

== Importing RSVPs

We're only going to worry ourselves with 'yes' RSVPs, we won't import any 'no' or 'waitlist' responses.

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
USING PERIODIC COMMIT 10000
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM "{csv-url}rsvps.csv" AS row
WITH row WHERE row.response = "yes"

MATCH (member:Member {id: row.member_id})
MATCH (event:Event {id: row.event_id})
MERGE (member)-[rsvp:RSVPD {id: row.rsvp_id}]->(event)
ON CREATE SET rsvp.created = toint(row.created),
              rsvp.lastModified = toint(row.mtime),
              rsvp.guests = toint(row.guests)
----

Let's check they got imported correctly:

include::form[tags=event]

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (event:Event)<-[rsvp:RSVPD]-(attendee)
WHERE event.name CONTAINS {event}
RETURN *
----


This query shows us who's signed up for the hackathons we've run as part of GraphConnect over the years. Have any of you been to multiple GraphHacks?

Now we're ready to make use of RSVPs and venues in our events recommendation query.

== Our previous RSVPS

First we'll update the query to add a score for an event based on previous events we've attended in that group.

include::form.adoc[tags=name]

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
MATCH (member:Member) WHERE member.name CONTAINS {name}

MATCH (futureEvent:Event)
WHERE timestamp() + (7 * 24 * 60 * 60 * 1000) > futureEvent.time > timestamp()

WITH member, futureEvent, EXISTS((member)-[:MEMBER_OF]->()-[:HOSTED_EVENT]->(futureEvent)) AS myGroup
OPTIONAL MATCH (member)-[:INTERESTED_IN]->()<-[:HAS_TOPIC]-()-[:HOSTED_EVENT]->(futureEvent)

WITH member, futureEvent, myGroup, COUNT(*) AS commonTopics
WHERE commonTopics >= 3

OPTIONAL MATCH (member)-[rsvp:RSVPD]->(previousEvent)<-[:HOSTED_EVENT]-()-[:HOSTED_EVENT]->(futureEvent)
WHERE previousEvent.time < timestamp()

WITH futureEvent, commonTopics, myGroup, COUNT(rsvp) AS previousEvents

MATCH (venue)<-[:VENUE]-(futureEvent)<-[:HOSTED_EVENT]-(group)

WITH futureEvent, group, venue, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, distance(point(venue), point({training-location})) AS distance
WITH futureEvent, group, venue, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, distance, CASE WHEN myGroup THEN 5 ELSE 0 END AS myGroupScore
WITH futureEvent, group, venue, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, distance, myGroupScore, round((futureEvent.time - timestamp()) / (24.0*60*60*1000)) AS days

RETURN futureEvent.name, futureEvent.time, group.name, venue.name, commonTopics, myGroup, previousEvents, days, distance, myGroupScore + commonTopics - days AS score
ORDER BY score DESC
----

Now it's your turn!

== Exercise: Events at my venues

At the moment our event recommendation query takes into account our groups, topics and the previous events we've been to but it doesn't take into account where those events were hosted which could be an important factor.
Let's now update the query to:

* calculate a score for events at venues that I've previously visited

You'll remember from the venues guide that we saw some venues appear many times under different names.
Let's also update the query to:

* calculate a score for events within 500 metres of venues that I've previously visited

to account for that problem with the data.

== To the slides!

image::{img}/slides.jpg[]

pass:a[<a play-topic='{guides}/06_my_venues_answers.html'>Answers: Events at my venues</a>]

== Next Step
In our next section we're going to take a brief detour to introduce procedures, a new addition in Neo4j 3.0.0.
We'll then make use of them in our recommendations and even write some of our own if time permits.

pass:a[<a play-topic='{guides}/07_procedures.html'>Procedures</a>]
