docs/09_venues.adoc, before:

= Venues
:csv-url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/neo4j-meetups/modeling-worked-example/master/data/
:icons: font

== Venues

One of the most important factors influencing which events people attend is where those events are being hosted.
In this section we're going to introduce venues into the graph and then use those in our recommendation queries.

We'll start by seeing what data we've got on venues:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS
FROM "{csv-url}venues.csv"
AS row
RETURN row
LIMIT 10
----

So we've got a venue id, name and then some address details including the lat and long.
Let's get that imported!

== Exercise: Importing venues

* Load the venues into the graph - make sure you store `latitude` and `longitude` as properties as we'll be using those in the next section.
* Connect the events we loaded earlier to our newly loaded venues

_Tip_ You'll have to iterate over the events CSV file again to get the `venue_id` for each event

== Verifying venues import

* ADD SLIDE SHOWING THE QUERIES FOR LOADING*
Maybe also an 'answers' guide to go along with it?

Hopefully you've got `latitude` and `longitude` properties on each of the venues we just imported.
You can check by running the following query:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
MATCH (venue:Venue)
WHERE EXISTS(venue.latitude) AND EXISTS(venue.longitude)
RETURN COUNT(*)
----

You should see a count > 0.
If you don't then grab one of the trainers and we can help you fix it.

Next we're going to do some distance calculations with those values.

== Distance to venues

We'll start with a simple query to find venues near here:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
WITH {latitude: 0.1, longtitude: 0.34} AS graphConnectTrainingVenue
MATCH (venue:Venue)

WITH venue, distance(venue, graphConnectTrainingVenue) AS distance
RETURN venue, distance
ORDER BY distance
----

Try changing the first line to point to some other lat/longs in London.
e.g. the QE2 where Graph Connect will be tomorrow is at <INSERT-QE2-LAT-LONG>

== Exercise: Using venues in recommendations

* Update the events recommendation query we wrote earlier to return the distance to here
* Filter out events which are more than 1km away

* ADD THESE ANSWERS TO THE SLIDES*

We can do recommendations for my favourite venues
Venues within a certain distance of a particular part of London

We could even merge together identical venues which have been given a separate id in the meetup data set?

Commit message:

adding answers for venues exercises

docs/09_venues.adoc, after:

= Venues
:csv-url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/neo4j-meetups/modeling-worked-example/master/data/
:icons: font

== Venues

One of the most important factors influencing which events people attend is where those events are being hosted.
In this section we're going to introduce venues into the graph and then use those in our recommendation queries.

We'll start by seeing what data we've got on venues:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS
FROM "{csv-url}venues.csv"
AS row
RETURN row
LIMIT 10
----

So we've got a venue id, name and then some address details including the lat and long.
Let's get that imported!

== Exercise: Importing venues

* Load the venues into the graph - make sure you store `latitude` and `longitude` as properties as we'll be using those in the next section.
* Connect the events we loaded earlier to our newly loaded venues

_Tip_ You'll have to iterate over the events CSV file again to get the `venue_id` for each event

== Verifying venues import

Hopefully you've got `latitude` and `longitude` properties on each of the venues we just imported.
You can check by running the following query:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
MATCH (venue:Venue)
WHERE EXISTS(venue.latitude) AND EXISTS(venue.longitude)
RETURN COUNT(*)
----

You should see a count > 0.
If you don't then grab one of the trainers and we can help you fix it.

Next we're going to do some distance calculations with those values.

== Distance to venues

We'll start with a simple query to find venues near here:

[source,cypher,subs=attributes]
----
WITH {latitude: 51.518551, longitude: -0.086114} AS graphConnectTrainingVenue
MATCH (venue:Venue)

WITH venue, distance(venue, graphConnectTrainingVenue) AS distance
RETURN venue, distance
ORDER BY distance
LIMIT 10
----

This query

* specifies our current location in a variable called `graphConnectTrainingVenue`
* iterates over all venues
* calculates the distance from our current location to each venue
* returns the 10 closest venues to us along with the distance in metres.

Try changing the first line to point to some other lat/longs in London.
e.g. the QE2 where Graph Connect will be tomorrow is at `51.5002221,-0.1290273`

== Exercise: Using venues in recommendations

* Update the events recommendation query we wrote earlier to return the distance to here
* Filter out events which are more than 1km away

We can do recommendations for my favourite venues
Venues within a certain distance of a particular part of London

We could even merge together identical venues which have been given a separate id in the meetup data set?
